>>comment<<
Summary:A story of how ideas catch on
Parent:(Consulting.)ChangeManagement
IncludeMe:[[(Consulting.)ChangeManagement]]
Categories:[[!Articles]]
Tags: change management
(:tags-hide change management :)
>><<

(:source lang=mail:)
Date: Thu, 18 Apr 1996 08:17:47 -0500 (EST)
From: Peter Pflaum < mailto:pflaump@internetMCI.com >
Subject: The "catch-on" factor LO6774
SYNERGY-NET on http://metro.turnpike.net/~pflaump
(:sourceend:)a

Aesop:

The Two Frogs:

TWO frogs were neighbors. One lived in a marsh. where there was plenty	 of water, which frogs love: the other frog lived in a lane some	distance away, where all the water to be had was that which lay in the	ruts after a rain. The Marsh Frog warned his friend and pressed him to	come and live with him in the marsh, for he would find quarters there	far more comfortable and - what is still more important- more safe.	But the other refused, saying that he could not bring himself to move	from a place in which he has become accustomed. A few days afterward a	heavy wagon came down the lane, and he was crushed to death under the	wheels.

If a frog comes to the edge of your rut and tells you of a new and	different place what would you do ? At least pay a visit to see if	 it's true ?

In James Shreeve's "The Neanderthal Enigma" (William Morrow, 1995) he	quotes Allan Wilson, who headed the team of human DNA mitochondrial	research that produced the "Eve" theory. The theory suggests that all	existing people came out of Africa as a single strain of modern homo	sapiens. We all are descendants from this historic "Eve" mother who	was transformed from archaic humans, sometime in the last 300,000	years.

"Ultimately it all came back to molecular mutations. In the brain	there must be a mutation for the ability to "catch on", to detect	fellow creatures who have discovered something and imitate it as	good." Among the population those groups made up of members who had	"better" brains and "caught-on" faster reproduced at a higher rate	creating a positive feedback loop generating ever-faster evolution. (page 123)

Human evolution since the beginning of modern people has been by	cultural advantages. All new technologies are tools of cultural	evolution:

'''Stage I:''' ( 70,000 years) hunter gathers become farmers and herders;	THE AGE OF CLANS, tribal territory, the dreamtime.

'''Stage II:''' ( 7,000 ) improvements in irrigation, transportation,	sailing and navigation, public administration and the money creates	"civilizations" cities and empires; THE AGE OF EMPIRES, myths, kings	and churches.

'''Stage III:''' (700 years) cannon boring, joint stock companies and	insurance, money and banking, printing, creates the nation states,	imperialism and the first industrial revolution, the federalist papers	and the U.S. Constitution, Newton, Kepler; THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION,	iron and coal. The age of reason.

'''Stage IV, or III b:''' (70 years ) mass production, the modern	corporation, public schools and universities, Plank, Einstein, and	going to the moon and back, all are examples of "catching-on" to	better methods. THE MODERN Period, The AGE OF OIL ( Chemistry and	electricity ) The materialist, bottom line, structured world we come	from and know.

As we layer into Stage III c, IV or V: ( 7 years ) the catch-on is to	smaller warm blooded flexible cultural grouping that search for niches	in a global economy. THE AGE of INFORMATION: negative feedback means	the end of the age of dinosaurs mass production organizations and	causes down-sizing. Positive feedback the "Gold rush" on the Internet.	A world we don't know - some of us "catchon" faster than others. Some	organizations learn faster than others.

(:linebreaks:)
SYNERGY-NET on http://emporium.turnpike.net/~pflaump or
http://metro.turnpike.net/~pflaum  mailto:pflaump@msn.com
Peter E. Pflaum Ph.D. , Headmaster GLOBAL_VILLAGE_SCHOOLHOUSE
225 Robinson Road, New Smyrna Beach, FL 32169-2176 (904) 428-9609
mailto:pflaump@sprynet.com
(:nolinebreaks:)

