>>comment<<
Summary:some caveats about using the MBTI
Parent:(Consulting.)ChangeManagement
IncludeMe:[[(Consulting.)ChangeManagement]]
Categories:[[!Articles]]
Tags: mbti
(:tags-hide mbti :)
>><<

[[#excerpt]]
This is some material from a colleague on the dangers of using the MBTI to stereotype or type cast people. If you are a user of these tools, please read this and incorporate it into your practice. This isn't an attempt to disuade you from using the MBTI (I still use it quite often) but to be wary of it. Remeber: "The Map is Not the Territory!"
[[#excerptend]]

!! MBTI Research--The Untold Story


Each year, hundreds of people every year invest about a thousand
dollars and a week's time to learn how to use the Myers-Briggs Type
Indicator (MBTI) in training programs. In addition, over a million of
other people attend these programs or are subjected to this popular
personality test. While most psychologists consider the MBTI to be
unreliable and inconsistent with current scientific theory, the
general public has no knowledge of its weaknesses. They do not
appreciate the dangers of typing, and they do not have access to the
scientific literature that has discredited it. You may be interested
in finding out about the research that MBTI trainers do not
mention--indeed, may not even know about. 

!! Sipps, Gary J., Ralph A. Alexander and Larry Friedt. "Item Analysis of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator." Educational and Psychological Measurement, 45 (1985), 789-796.

The only published item-factor analysis of the MBTI, this study
examined a diverse population of 1,291 subjects. The findings
revealed that 41 of the 95 items (43%) did not correlate significantly
with the factors they were supposed to measure. The failure rate was
as follows: E-I, 27.3%; S-N, 57.7%; T-F, 56.5%; and J-P, 29.2%. "This
raises the question of the appropriateness of the use of these items
on the questionnaire," the researchers concluded. 

!! Carlyn, M. "An Assessment of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator." Journal of Personal Assessment, 41 (1977), 461-473.

Carlyn analyzed the independence of the four scales of the MBTI and
found that the fourth scale, judgment-perception (J-P), had an
unexpectedly high relationship to the sensing-intuition (S-N), with
correlations ranging from .23 to .48 in 11 samples. People who scored
high in sensing (S) tended to score high in judgment (J); and people
who scored high in intuition (N) tended to score high in perception
(P). This finding discredits the J-P scale, which is not one of the
original Jungian dimensions. Carlyn's findings replicated those of
Strickler and Ross (1964). 

!! Strickler, L. J. and J. A. Ross. "Some Correlates of a Jungian Personality Inventory." Psychological Reports, 14 (April 1964), 623-643.

This study showed unexpectedly high correlations between the S-N scale
and the P-J scale.

!! McCarley, N. and T. G. Carskadon. "Test-retest Reliabilities of Scales and Subscales of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator and of Criteria for Clinical Interpretive Hypotheses Involving Them." Research in Psychological Type, 6 (1983), 24-36.

Assigning a type is the primary objective of the MBTI. This study
evaluated the stability of the type designation. It noted that the
type designation of 53% of the subjects changed when retested after
five weeks. 

!! Loomis, Mary and June Singer. "Testing the Bipolar Assumption in Jung's Typology." Journal of Analytical Psychology, 25 (1980), 351-356.

Two Jungian analysts tested the stability of the MBTI type
designations by comparing the types produced by the MBTI, which uses a
forced-choice psychometric, and the types produced by a modified MBTI,
which used the same 95 items with scaled responses. If the types
produced by the MBTI are not artificial by-products of the
forced-choice questioning method, then changing the method should not
change the type designations. In a sample of 79 subjects, 46% of the
type designations changed when the scaled version was given. They
concluded that the forced-choice questioning method used by the MBTI
is not a sufficiently exact measuring device. 

!! Druckman, Daniel and Robert A. Bjork, eds. The Mind's Eye: Enhancing Human Performance. Washington, DC: National Academy Press, 1991.

The authors summarized studies that evaluated the MBTI and drew
several conclusions: 

"The evidence summarized in this section raises questions about the
validity of the MBTI. . . . Unfortunately, neither the gains in
sensitivity nor the impact of those gains on performance have been
documented by research. Nor has the instrument been validated in a
long-term study of successful and unsuccessful careers. Lacking such
evidence, it is a curiosity why the instrument is used so widely,
particularly in large organizations." (p. 99) 

"The lack of a supportive research foundation for the MBTI leads the
committee to recommend that the instrument not be used in career
counseling programs until its validity is supported by research." (p. 100) 

"The popularity of this instrument in the absence of proven scientific
worth is troublesome." (p. 101) 

!! Jung, C. G. Psychological Types. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1971 (1921).

When you read what Carl Jung had to say in Psychological Types, you
discover that it his views are not the same as those of MBTI
proponents. 

In speaking of the opposing factors of his typology, Jung wrote:
"Every human being possesses both mechanisms as an expression of his
natural life-rhythm. . . . one mechanism will naturally predominate,
and if this condition becomes in any way chronic a type will be
produced. . . . Hence there can never be a pure type in the sense that
it possesses only one mechanism with the complete atrophy of the
other." pp. 5-6. 

In other words, Jung used the concept of "type" to represent an
extreme, chronic or pathological condition. He saw the larger
population of ordinary, healthy people as being outside the boundaries
of his typology. He later articulated this view when speaking about
extraverts and introverts. "There is, finally, a third group, and here
it is hard to say whether the motivation comes chiefly from within or
without. This group is the most numerous and includes the less
differentiated normal man, who is considered normal either because he
allows himself no excesses or because he has no need of them. The
normal man is by definition, influenced as much from within as from
without." pp. 515-516 (1923). 

According to Jung's thinking, it is erroneous to say that a person is
either an introvert or an extrovert. "By comparing many such cases it
gradually became clear to me that there must be two fundamentally
different general attitudes which would divide human beings into two
groups--provided the whole of humanity consisted of highly
differentiated individuals. . . . this is obviously not the case." (p. 549 (1936). 

He disagreed with the practice of typing people. "The opinion has got
about that my method of treatment consists in fitting patients into
this system and giving them corresponding 'advice.' This regrettable
misunderstanding completely ignores the fact that this kind of
classification is nothing but a childish parlour game, every bit as
futile as the division of mankind into brachycephalics and
dolichocephalics. My typology is far rather a critical apparatus
serving to sort out and organize the welter of empirical material, but
not in any sense to stick labels on people." p. xiv (1934).

