(:linebreaks:)
(:Summary:Gloves which translate ASL to audible speech :)
(:Tags: hard of hearing, deaf, asl, technology, translation, communication, speech:)
(:tags-hide hard of hearing, deaf, asl, technology, translation, communication, speech:)
(:title EnableTalk documentation:)
(:Parent:SavedArticles(.HomePage):)
(:IncludeMe:[[SavedArticles.HomePage]]:)
Source: http://enabletalk.com/abstract.html
Page saved at: Wed, 11 Jul 2012 23:35:50 -0500
(:nolinebreaks:)

(:nolinkwikiwords:)

! Our project

Every human wants to communicate and get everything there is to it. This is simply our nature. But there's a group of people with hearing and speech disabilities, many of them completely unable to engage in verbal communications. Moreover, the existing language barrier between those who know the sign language and the rest of the world further exacerbates this problem. Sign language only partially provides the ability to communicate ' only in limited circumstances and among a limited group of people. Even something as habitual for the rest of us as shopping becomes problematic when a disabled person is confronted with a shop assistant who does not know sign language. Problems like these have huge and obvious influence on everyday life and general opportunities for self-fulfillment of the disabled people.

http://enabletalk.com:80/images/framework.jpg

&quot;Enable Talk&quot; project aims at solving the problem of limited communication abilities for the disabled people who know sign language and to transform it into a form of verbal communication. The goal of our project is to create a mobile device that can continuously recognize sign language phonemes. Also we consider it possible to implement a cell-phone conversation using our system. Our team sees the solution of this problem in creating a system that consists of two parts ' a hardware part (virtual reality gloves) and a software part, which is developed under Windows Phone 7 / Windows 8. The software solution accepts the information input from the glove sensors and transforms the resulting data into a sound wave (Picture 1). The interaction between the glove and the mobile device is implemented through Bluetooth technology. After surveying the existing hardware solutions that attempt the recognition of signs we have decided to make the hardware ourselves. We've created several different prototypes, tested several solutions with flex sensors.

http://enabletalk.com:80/images/glove1.jpg

As a result we've developed the model of gloves that includes modern microcontroller, 15 flex sensors, accelerometer, gyroscope, and a compass in order to define the position of the glove in space, a Bluetooth module for data transmission from the gloves to a mobile device and a USB-port for the synchronization with the PC and for charging the Li-ion battery that provides power. The glove is also fitted with a solar panel to provide for longer intervals between charging and out of concern for environment.

Our team is confident that this project allows us to combine modern technologies in the field of microelectronics and the immense power of Windows OS in order to make the world better not only for people with hearing and speech disabilities, but also for the rest of us. Furthermore, the potential of our system is in no way limited to the described field, but can also be applied in virtually every segment of IT.

http://enabletalk.com:80/images/glove2.jpg

! Advantages

*'''  Uniq  Easy to use'''

*'''  Ultra-portable  Flexible'''

*'''  Long battery life  Cheap to produce'''

*'''  Large target audience  Phone use possibility'''

&copy; 2012. All rights reserved

(:linkwikiwords:)

